# devnetlabs

## Logging setup

To setup logging you can add two environment variables or just use defaults.

1. LABS_LOG_PATH="your/desired/path" (relative to your home directory)
2. LABS_LOG_LEVEL="debug" (you can use upper or lower case for the level)

If you don't set them, the default value for path is ~/devnetlabs/logs/ and info for log level.

## Workflow for loading a lab

From the terminal of choice type `labs` to start the menu system. You will see something similar to the following:

```
DevNetLabs

  Labs Menu

    1 - Labs
    2 - Eve-NG Tools
    3 - Exit

  Select an option >> 
```

From here you want to select 1 to go to the Labs menu.

You will now have the following optons:

```
    1 - Load a lab
    2 - Return to the main menu
    3 - Exit
```

Select 1 to Load a lab.

At this point you should see a list of labs that you have created. If you don't see anything make sure you have added a lab. See the section on Adding Labs.

```
1 - Basic-NAT
2 - DHCP
3 - EIGRP
4 - OSPF
5 - BGP
```

Once you make a selection here it will create the lab in eve-ng, startup all nodes, and load your base configs.

## Adding Labs

When you run the lab for the first time it will create folders in you home directory. You should see ~/devnetlabs/labs and ~/devnetlabs/logs.

To add a lab just create folder in the labs folder. In that folder you will add a file called lab.toml. It does need to be the exact name in all lab folders.

Next, create a folder called configs and in there add your config files where the name is the name of your node in the [[nodes]] section of lab.toml. For example, Switch1.cfg or R1.cfg, etc...

## TOML settings file - lab.toml

```
[[nodes]]
console = "telnet"
delay = 0
id = 1
left = 642
icon = "Switch L3.png"
image = "viosl2-adventerprisek9-m.SSA.high_iron_20180619"
name = "Switch1"
ram = 1024
status = 0
template = "viosl2"
type = "qemu"
top = 186
cpu = 1
ethernet = 8

[[nodes]]
console = "telnet"
delay = 0
id = 2
left = 861
icon = "Switch L3.png"
image = "viosl2-adventerprisek9-m.SSA.high_iron_20180619"
name = "Switch2"
ram = 1024
status = 0
template = "viosl2"
type = "qemu"
top = 186
cpu = 1
ethernet = 8

[[cables]]
type = "ethernet"
source = "Switch2"
source_type = "node"
source_label = "Gi0/0"
destination = "Switch1"
destination_type = "node"
destination_label = "Gi0/0"

[lab]
author = ""
description = "BGP Lab"
body = "Configure eBGP peering between the two switches"
name = "bgp"
version = "1"
scripttimeout = 300
path = "/"
```

This file can be generated by creating the lab in eve-ng then using the **Eve-NG Tools** and selecting **Build toml from existing lab**

> Note: If you modify file directly make sure that image, template, and type match up with your device inventory.

## Creating a toml file from an existing lab

Start the labs python script by typing `labs` in terminal.

From the first menu select 2 for Eve-NG Tools.

```
  Main Menu

    1 - Labs
    2 - Eve-NG Tools
    3 - Exit


  Select an option >> 2
```

Next, select 1 to **Build toml from existing lab**.

```
  Eve-NG Tools

    1 - Build toml from existing lab
    2 - Create a lab from toml
    3 - Delete a lab
    4 - Return to the main menu
    5 - Exit


  Select an option >> 1
```

You will be prompted to enter in the name of a lab that exists in Eve-NG. It doesn't have to be running.

```
Enter the name of the existing eve-ng lab: eigrp
File '/Users/username/devnetlabs/labs/eigrp.toml' saved successfully.
Successfully saved to eigrp.toml
Press [ENTER] to continue...
```

Press enter to return to the menu then 5 to Exit.

> Note: The file will be added to the ~/devnetlabs/labs directory.

To finish up create a folder with the lab name. Move the newly created toml file into that folder. Create another folder in there called configs and add all your config files.



